1. DNS 
  DNS allows us humans to keep track of websites and hosts by name instead of an IP address.

2. DNS Components
    Name Server
      The name servers load up our DNS settings and configs and answers any questions from clients or other servers that want to know things like "Who is google.com?"
      Authoritative => they hold the actual DNS records that you're looking for
      Recursive => they would ask other servers and those servers would ask other servers until they found an authoritative server that contained the DNS records
    Zone File
      Inside Name servers
      Zone files are how the name server stores information about the domain or how to get to the domain if it doesn't know. 
    Resource Records
      A zone file is comprised of entries of resource records.
        Record name
        TTL - The time after which we discard the record and obtain a new one, in DNS TTL is denoted by time, so records could have a TTL of one hour. 
        Class - Namespace of the record information, most commonly IN is used for internet
        Type - Type of information stored in the record data. A for address, MX for Mail exchanger, etc.
        Data - This field can contain an IP address if it's an A record or something else depending on the record type.

3. DNS Process
  Local DNS Server
  Root Servers
  Top-Level Domain
  Authoritative DNS Server

4. /etc/hosts
  /etc/hosts
  The /etc/hosts file contains mappings of some hostnames to IP addresses.
  You can also manage access to hosts by modifying the /etc/hosts.deny or /etc/hosts.allow files.

  /etc/resolv.conf
  The /etc/resolv.conf file is a configuration file that specifies how a system uses DNS to resolve host names and IP addresses

5. DNS Setup
  BIND
  DNSmasq
  PowerDNS

6. DNS Tools
  nslookup
    The "name server lookup" tool is used to query name servers to find information about resource records. 
  dig
    Dig (domain information groper) is a powerful tool for getting information about DNS name servers, it is more flexible than nslookup and great for troubleshooting DNS issues.
  

