1. ICMP
  Each ICMP message contains a type, code and checksum field. The type field is the type of ICMP message, the code is a sub-type and describes more information about the message and the checksum is used to detect any issues with the integrity of the message.
  Type 0 - Echo Reply
  Type 3 - Destination Unreachable
    Code 0 - Network Unreachable
    Code 1 - Host Unreachable
    etc..etc.. 
  Type 8 - Echo Request
  Type 11 - Time Exceeded

2. ping
  ping -c 3 www.google.com
  icmp_seq => The icmp_seq field is used to show the sequence number of packets sent
  ttl => The Time To Live (ttl) field is used as a hop counter, as you make hops, it decrements the counter by one and once the hop counter reaches 0, our packet dies.
  time => The roundtrip time it took from you sending the echo request packet to getting an echo reply. 

3. traceroute
  The traceroute command is used to see how packets are getting routed. 
  It works by sending packets with increasing TTL values, starting with 1. 
  So the first router gets the packet, and it decrements the TTL value by one, thus dropping the packet. 
  The router sends back an ICMP Time Exceeded message back to us. 
  And then the next packet gets a TTL of 2, so it makes it past the first router, but when it gets to the second router the TTL is 0 and it returns another ICMP Time Exceeded message.   
  Traceroute works this way because as it sends and drops packets it is build a list of routers that the packets traverse, until it finally gets to its destination and gets an ICMP Echo Reply message. 

4. netstat
  Well Known Ports
  ftp             21/tcp
  ssh             22/tcp
  smtp            25/tcp 
  domain          53/tcp  # DNS
  http            80/tcp
  https           443/tcp

  netstat
    Netstat displays various network related information such network connections, routing tables, information about network interfaces and more, it's the swiss army knife of networking tools.
    netstat -at
      The netstat -a command shows the listening and non-listening sockets for network connections, the -t flag shows only tcp connections. 
    Proto Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address           Foreign Address         State      
    tcp        0      0 icebox:domain           *:*                     LISTEN
      Proto: Protocol used, TCP or UDP.
      Recv-Q: Data that is queued to be received
      Send-Q: Data that is queued to be sent
      Local Address: Locally connected host
      Foreign Address: Remotely connected host
      State: The state of the socket
  LISTENING: The socket is listening for incoming connections, remember when we make a TCP connection our destination has to be listening for us before we can connect.
  SYN_SENT: The socket is actively attempting to establish a connection.
  ESTABLISHED: The socket has an established connection
  CLOSE_WAIT: The remote host has shutdown and we're waiting for the socket to close
  TIME_WAIT: The socket is waiting after close to handle packets still in the network

5. Packet Analysis
  tcpdump
    sudo apt install tcpdump
    sudo tcpdump -i wlan0
    Writing tcpdump output to a file => sudo tcpdump -w /some/file















